# Mike Raynham -- Curriculum Vitae

# Contact

* http://www.mikeraynham.co.uk | enquiries@mikeraynham.co.uk | +44 7813 307561
* 57 Ecton Avenue, Macclesfield, SK10 1RD

# Summary

* Diverse experience over 24 years, with the last 5 years as technical lead for
  a high capacity website: programming Perl, supporting Linux, Apache HTTP
  Server, nginx, HAProxy, MySQL, memcached and Gearman.

# Employment

##  SpareRoom.co.uk
### August 2011 to present (Technical Lead)

SpareRoom.co.uk is one of the busiest flatsharing websites in the UK.

* Introduced unit testing and developed procedures for testing and refactoring
  legacy code.
* Defined Perl coding standards and introduced code reviews.
* Drove continuous refactoring of code and simplification of server and
  application architecture, thus leading to code and servers that are easier to
  maintain.
* Created standardised development and testing environments using VirtualBox.
* Simplified the release process, making it quicker, safer and more automated.
* Migrated the version control system from Subversion to Git and provided
  documentation and training.
* Planned, tested and carried out migration of advert photo storage and
  retrieval from a physical server to Amazon S3 with an ELB and EC2 front-end.
* Improved site performance and stability by implementing memcached and
  Gearman.
* Planned and implemented a database upgrade from MySQL 4.1.22 to Percona
  Server 5.6.
* Migrated core systems to a new data centre, with servers provisioned by
  Cobbler, Kickstart and Puppet.
* Using Perl 5.22.0 with Rex and Pinto to create a fully automated release
  process.
* Led a project to move the website’s core search feature from MySQL to Sphinx
  Search, reducing load on the RDBMS and improving performance.
* Improved recruitment procedures and introduced technical tests; interviewing
  of technical candidates and providing training for new starters.

##  Self employment
### August 2005 to August 2011

Web development and IT support for small businesses.

* Created database driven websites with custom content management systems.
* Earlier sites used Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP.  Later sites used Linux,
  nginx, MySQL and Perl.  For these, I utilised the Catalyst MVC framework and
  DBIx::Class.
* Hand-coded all HTML and CSS.
* Designed and produced artwork using open source tools (primarily Inkscape
  and Gimp).

Additional work included:

* The development and testing of installation procedures for a Microsoft
  Silverlight IIS complaints system that had been designed for local councils
  by a software development company in Wilmslow.
* The development of an application for Reed Professional Services to extract
  information from their accounting system, create PDF remittance advice notes,
  and email these directly to contractors. The application processes around 300
  remittance advice notes per week.  It was written in MS Visual Basic Express,
  and used an SQLite database.

##  Cheshire Building Society
### July 2001 to April 2003 (Technical Support Programmer)
### April 2003 to August 2005 (Infrastructure & Security Analyst)

Based in Technical Support, I was part of a small third level support team
responsible for the all the back end IT systems:

* Testing and maintaining the disaster recovery plan.
* Design, installation and support for all intrusion detection, firewall and
  other security systems.
* Call-out support for all critical systems, including the core banking
  applications, security and intrusion detection and e-commerce systems.
* Providing training and support to User Support -- the first and second level
  support team.
* Providing support to the Core Systems Development team.

Projects and responsibilities included:

* Design, implementation and support of the company's anti-virus software and
  procedures.
* Design, development and maintenance of a bespoke VB 6.0 application to
  install security patches and application updates, configure software and
  hardware settings and perform many other routine tasks at logon, whilst also
  providing extensive system information logs for all the company's PCs.
* The migration from Novell GroupWise 5.0 to Microsoft Exchange 2000 and
  Outlook 2002.  This included server installation and configuration, migration
  of user accounts, and installation of software on all user PCs.
* The development of a bespoke application to automatically create and
  configure Exchange/Outlook profiles for users.  It allows users to roam from
  PC to PC whilst maintaining all their settings, without the need for bloated
  Windows OS roaming profiles.  This ensured that users maintained some of the
  functionality of GroupWise, whilst also benefiting from the new features of
  Exchange and Outlook.
* The design and installation of a Microsoft Active Directory environment run
  in parallel with the existing Novell Directory Services during the migration.
* The installation, configuration and roll-out of the RIM Blackberry messaging
  system.

## Building Design Partnership
### July 1996 to July 2001

BDP is a large architectural practice, with offices throughout the country.  I
was based in the Head Office as a member of the third level support team,
Central IT Support.

* Provided technical support to first and second level IT support teams.
* Advised on PC hardware selection and standard configuration issues.
* Support and coordination of BDP's anti-virus software and security systems.
* Day to day supervision and training of the Installations Technician.
* Designed validation procedures used for all specialised technical software
  within the practice.

Projects and responsibilities included:

* The roll-out of Windows NT 4.0 and Windows NT 4.0 Server to all BDP offices.
* The development of a customised Microsoft Internet Explorer for the BDP
  Intranet.
* Testing and certification of all BDP's software for Year 2000 compliance.
* Development of Windows NT Mandatory Profiles, System Policies and logon
  scripts.
* Development of various bespoke utility applications using Visual Basic and
  Visual C++.

## Expert Systems Design
### July 1995 TO July 1996

Expert Systems Design was a small software house that produced software for
recruitment agencies.

* Development of the core application.
* Customer support, on-site installations and data migrations.

## Atkins Odlin & Partners
### April 1992 to July 1995

* Computer Administrator.
* CAD Technician (AutoCAD).

# Buzzwords

Perl, MySQL, Apache, Nginx, Linux, Git, Subversion, Vim, HTML, CSS,
VirtualBox, Amazon S3 (Simple Storage Services), Amazon EC2 (Elastic Cloud
Compute), AWS (Amazon Web Services), Shell Scripting, Sphinx Search, MongoDB,
PHP, Windows, Puppet, Cobbler, Kickstart, Memcached, Gearman, Varnish
